Context API 

Context provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down manually at every level.


How it works ?
React.createContext() is all you need. It returns a consumer and a provider. 
Provider is a component that provides the state to its children. 
It will hold the "store" and be the parent of all the components that might need that store. 
Consumer is a component that consumes and uses the state.



API

React.createContext - 
const MyContext = React.createContext(defaultValue);
Creates a Context object. The defaultValue argument is only used when a component does not have a matching Provider above it in the tree

Context.Provider - 
<MyContext.Provider value={/* some value */}>
The Provider component accepts a value prop to be passed to consuming components. One Provider can be connected to many consumers. 


Class.contextType - 
MyClass.contextType = MyContext;
Using this property lets you consume the value of that Context type using this.context.

Context.Consumer - 
<MyContext.Consumer>
  {value => /* render something based on the context value */}
</MyContext.Consumer>
Requires a function as a child. The function receives the current context value and returns a React node.

Hook
useContext() - 
const value = useContext(MyContext);
Accepts a context object and returns the current context value for that context. 











saga

Redux-saga is a redux middleware, that is designed to make handling side effects in your redux app. 
It achieves this by using an ES6 feature called Generators, allowing us to write asynchronous code that looks synchronous, and is very easy to test.
So why should we use redux-saga? 
Contrary to redux thunk, you don’t end up in callback hell, you can test your asynchronous flows easily and your actions stay pure.

Work flow :

create saga middleware and pass that to store
create an action which is an object and dispatch it. 
reducer will deal with this type of actions and saga will call a generator function with that action type
from saga call to API should be triggered and based on the response it will dispatch another action ex. for sucess or failure 
reducer will deal with this action and update the state





Thunk

Redux Thunk is middleware that allows you to dispatch functions, rather than just actions. 
Those functions can later on dispatch actions. In this way we can use those functions to delay the actual task.

Work flow :

Apply thunk middleware to the store using applyMiddleware() 
dispatch a thunk function
from thunk function it will do some action and dispatch the action
it will go to reducer and update the state






When to use saga or thunk 
    - when we have to do only api calls then can use saga. If we have to do some calculation or array filter then can use thunk.
    - in thunk we have to call the function explicitly but in saga funtion which contains action gets called implicitly









Redux - it is a state management tool
why we use redux -> Single source of truth(means there will be just one store and from that store only all the data should pass to all components)
Only reducers are allowed to update the state
Components will displatch actions and that request will go to reducer and then reducer will do that from store.
To connect reducer with store we need to pass reducer function in createStore()

